Female Speaker: West Wing
Week says zot, zot, zot.
Narrator: Welcome to
the West Wing Week,
your guide to everything
that's happening
at 1600 Pennsylvania
Avenue and beyond --
The President: Zot, zot, zot.
(applause)
Narrator: Of June 15th to
June 19th, or, zot, zot, zot.
Audience Members: Zot, zot, zot.
(applause)
Narrator: President Obama
started this West Wing Week
in South Lawn, where he
discussed how the United States
would support Iraq's
efforts to fight extremists
who are threatening to
overrun their country.
That said, the president
was also clear about what
we would not do.
The President: The United States
is not simply going to involve
itself in a military action in
the absence of a political plan
by the Iraqis that gives us some
assurance that they're
prepared to work together.
Narrator: The president
then boarded Marine One,
to mark the first leg of a
three-day trip out west.
First up was the Standing
Rock Indian Reservation
in North Dakota, where the President channeled
the words of Standing Rock's most famous resident,
Chief Sitting Bull, to urge all Americans to work together
for the benefit of future
generations of Native Americans.
The President: So let's
put our minds together,
to build more economic
opportunity in Indian country.
Let's put our minds together
to improve our schools,
because our children deserve a
world-class education, too --
(applause)
The President: That prepares them for college and careers.
Narrator: On Saturday, the
president made his way
to the city and the home of the Angels,
to give the commencing address
for the University of
California, Irvine.
There, he urged the anteater
class of 2014 to continue
working on one of the biggest
threats in the world,
climate change, and to refuse
to be daunted by the work
that that may entail.
The President:
Hope is the belief,
against all evidence
to the contrary,
that there are better days
ahead, and that together,
we can build up a middle class,
and reshape our immigration
system, and shield our children
from gun violence and shelter
future generations from the
ravages of climate change.
Hope is the fact that today,
the single largest age group
in America is 22 year-olds who
are all just itching to reshape
this country and reshape the
world, and I cannot wait
to see what you do tomorrow.
Congratulations --
(applause)
The President: Thank
you, Class of 2014.
Narrator: On Monday,
south of the equator,
the vice president attended
the World Cup, stopping
by the U.S. Team's locker
room after the game
to congratulate them on
their victory over Ghana.
Male Speaker: Great to see you.
Vice President: You're kidding
me, this is a kick, man.
Narrator: Brazil was the
first stop on a four-country,
five-day diplomatic trip.
Let's switch up this West
Wing Week progression,
and break down the rest of
this trip in 60 seconds.
On Tuesday, the Vice President
was in Brasilia for a one-on-one
meeting with President Rousseff
and a bilateral meeting with
Vice-President Temer, before
delivering a statement
to the press, and stopping by
the U.S. Embassy in Brasilia.
(laughter)
Narrator: Then he
was on to Colombia.
After landing in Bogota,
the vice president visited
a chapel on top of the central
Bogota Mountain Monserrate.
Sitting more than 10,000
feet above sea level,
the chapel is a destination,
due to its fallen lord statue.
On Wednesday, the president
held a bilateral meeting with
President Santos, before
delivering joint statements
to the press.
He then visited the National
Center for Historic Memory,
a museum dedicated to those
whose lives were claimed during
Colombia's internal conflict,
and went on to a visit
with the local U.S. Embassy.
On Thursday, the vice president
met with President Medina
of the Dominican Republic
in Santo Domingo.
Before departing for Guatemala,
the Vice President spoke
on the broadening partnership on energy
security in the Caribbean.
On Tuesday, back in the
northern hemisphere,
the president was visiting
TechShop Pittsburgh,
a company that helps American
innovators make affordable
prototypes, to highlight
America's growing manufacturing
sector, and underscore the
importance of creating
quality jobs in the future,
right here in America.
The President: Hey.
You going to give
that girl something?
Male Speaker: I'm going
there in like two weeks.
The President: Can
I go with you?
Narrator: On Wednesday, the
president hosted the first
ever White House Maker Faire.
The event featured
makers, innovators,
and entrepreneurs of all ages,
who are using cutting-edge
tools and technology to bring
their ideas to life.
Let's take a look at
what the president.
Automated Speaker: That tickles.
Male Speaker: Yeah, so
he has a tickle spot.
The President: Incubators?
Female Speaker: Yes, incubators.
The President: Chief --
Female Speaker:
Chief incubators.
Female Speaker: That's right.
0:04:02.266,1193:02:47.295
The President: Two on the bus?
Narrator: On Thursday, the
President took to the podium
in the Brady Press Briefing Room, to announce his decision
about how the United States will confront the challenge in Iraq,
keeping our national security
interests front and center.
(music playing)
The President wrapped up this
West Wing Week in the East Room,
where he awarded the Medal
of Honor to Corporal Kyle
Carpenter, who saved a fellow
marine by jumping on an enemy
grenade in Afghanistan.
The President: Corporal William
Kyle Carpenter should not
be alive today, but the fact
that he is gives us reason
to trust that there is,
indeed, a bigger plan.
God bless, you Kyle.
God bless all who serve, and
protect the precious and amazing
life that we are blessed with.
May God continue to
bless and keep strong
the United States of
America, semper fi.
Narrator: Corporal Carpenter is
the third Marine to be awarded
the Medal of Honor for actions
in Iraq and Afghanistan.
So as always, thanks
to you, our viewer,
for checking out this edition of
West Wing Week, and remember,
you can find out more
information about any of these
topics and see complete
videos of these events
at whitehouse.gov.
Before we go, we put together
some clips of Jay Carney's last
moments at the White House.
Jay, from all of us here on your
team, thank you, and good luck.
The President: Come on, Jay.
Jay Carney: You
got one too for me?
The President: Come on,
we've got to get Jay out,
for an official Air
Force One picture.
(laughter)
Jay Carney: All
right, let's do it.
The President: Last trip.
Jay Carney: Hey everybody.
All right, we ready?
Multiple Voices: Yeah.
Jay Carney: All right.
(music playing)
Jay Carney: Now that is
some good rock and roll.
(laughter)
Jay Carney: I will
thank you for that.
That was pretty awesome.
I got it by voice's
introduction.
I appreciate that.
(applause)
Jay Carney: Thank
you all very much.
I'm sure we'll see
each other again.
Take care.
Male Speaker: Jay is
this yout last day?
(laughter)
Jay Carney: Yes,
oh, no, not at the White House,
sorry, my last briefing,
a couple more days.
I'll take that question.
Male Speaker: So when have you
charged the launch codes --?
Jay Carney: Oh, I couldn't
possibly reveal that.
(laughter)
Jay Carney: Thank
you all.
Multiple Voices: Thank you.
Male Speaker: Thank you, sir.
Jay Carney: Bye-bye.